docs/source/course_mode.rst, before:

.. note::

    Hello, welcome to the SunFounder Raspberry Pi & Arduino & ESP32 Enthusiasts Community on Facebook! Dive deeper into Raspberry Pi, Arduino, and ESP32 with fellow enthusiasts.

    **Why Join?**

    - **Expert Support**: Solve post-sale issues and technical challenges with help from our community and team.
    - **Learn & Share**: Exchange tips and tutorials to enhance your skills.
    - **Exclusive Previews**: Get early access to new product announcements and sneak peeks.
    - **Special Discounts**: Enjoy exclusive discounts on our newest products.
    - **Festive Promotions and Giveaways**: Take part in giveaways and holiday promotions.

    👉 Ready to explore and create with us? Click [|link_sf_facebook|] and join today!

.. _course_mode:

Play with Arduino
================================

Welcome to the Course Mode, a structured journey through 13 enlightening lessons. We kick off with a fascinating glimpse into the history of Mars rovers, setting the stage for our own rover assembly.

From the second lesson, we'll start getting hands-on. Each lesson spotlights a unique component crucial to our Mars rover. You'll not only understand its purpose and significance but also master its assembly and integration into the rover.

.. raw:: html

   <video width="600" loop autoplay muted>
      <source src="_static/video/move_stone1.mp4" type="video/mp4">
      Your browser does not support the video tag.
   </video>

Whether you are a novice eager to dive into the world of Mars rovers or an experienced hobbyist looking to hone your skills, these lessons are crafted to provide a comprehensive understanding of the mechanics, electronics, and software that bring our GalaxyRVR to life. By the end of the course, you'll not only have assembled your very own Mars rover, but you'll also possess the knowledge to troubleshoot, modify, and further experiment with your rover.

So, buckle up for an exciting journey into the world of Mars rovers! Dive in and start exploring the red planet from the comfort of your home.


.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    lesson1_history
    lesson2_rocker_bogie
    lesson3_arduino_ide
    lesson4_motor
    lesson5_car_move
    lesson6_ir_avoid
    lesson7_ultrasonic_avoid
    lesson8_ir_ultrasonic
    lesson9_rgb_strips
    lesson10_servo
    lesson11_camera
    Lesson12_move_with_app
    lesson13_solar_panel

Commit message:

fun pj & downl code & reconne

docs/source/course_mode.rst, after:

.. note::

    Hello, welcome to the SunFounder Raspberry Pi & Arduino & ESP32 Enthusiasts Community on Facebook! Dive deeper into Raspberry Pi, Arduino, and ESP32 with fellow enthusiasts.

    **Why Join?**

    - **Expert Support**: Solve post-sale issues and technical challenges with help from our community and team.
    - **Learn & Share**: Exchange tips and tutorials to enhance your skills.
    - **Exclusive Previews**: Get early access to new product announcements and sneak peeks.
    - **Special Discounts**: Enjoy exclusive discounts on our newest products.
    - **Festive Promotions and Giveaways**: Take part in giveaways and holiday promotions.

    👉 Ready to explore and create with us? Click [|link_sf_facebook|] and join today!

.. _course_mode:

Play with Arduino
================================

Welcome to the Course Mode, a structured journey through 13 enlightening lessons. We kick off with a fascinating glimpse into the history of Mars rovers, setting the stage for our own rover assembly.

From the second lesson, we'll start getting hands-on. Each lesson spotlights a unique component crucial to our Mars rover. You'll not only understand its purpose and significance but also master its assembly and integration into the rover.

.. raw:: html

   <video width="600" loop autoplay muted>
      <source src="_static/video/move_stone1.mp4" type="video/mp4">
      Your browser does not support the video tag.
   </video>

Whether you are a novice eager to dive into the world of Mars rovers or an experienced hobbyist looking to hone your skills, these lessons are crafted to provide a comprehensive understanding of the mechanics, electronics, and software that bring our GalaxyRVR to life. By the end of the course, you'll not only have assembled your very own Mars rover, but you'll also possess the knowledge to troubleshoot, modify, and further experiment with your rover.

So, buckle up for an exciting journey into the world of Mars rovers! Dive in and start exploring the red planet from the comfort of your home.


Download the Code
------------------------------------------

Download the relevant code from the link below.

    * :download:`GalaxyRVR Code File <https://github.com/sunfounder/galaxy-rvr/archive/refs/heads/main.zip>`

Or check out the code at `SunFounder GalaxyRVR Kit for Arduino - GitHub <https://github.com/sunfounder/galaxy-rvr/tree/main>`.



.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    lesson1_history
    lesson2_rocker_bogie
    lesson3_arduino_ide
    lesson4_motor
    lesson5_car_move
    lesson6_ir_avoid
    lesson7_ultrasonic_avoid
    lesson8_ir_ultrasonic
    lesson9_rgb_strips
    lesson10_servo
    lesson11_camera
    Lesson12_move_with_app
    lesson13_solar_panel
